# First Era: Hantu Era, 7000 years span

## The Source (1E0)

A spark, something unkown and unknowable.

## Creation of Aemil (1E1-1E2000)

All elements exist in the Ether and float in a state of chaos, sometime coalescing into stars and planets. Mana and Kaore are always essential elements of this process, acting respectively as forces of movement and stillness.

Extremely high concentrations of Mana exposed to the dense chaos of other elements result in the formation of a planet that will one day be known as Aemil.

The first form of life arrives from the Ether: a blue seed gently travelling along trails of Mana to reach its final destination. Landing on Aemil, it begins the cycle of life as it has begun many times before. 

The seed sprouts into the first Hakuturi - a Mana Tree, which presides over the growth of new forms of life and spreads itself too, so that its roots may surround the whole world. One tree grows into many and the Hakuturi become separate individuals, but connected through their roots in one great mind.

### Birth of the Hantu (1E1000)

On the surface of Aemil life is plentiful and thriving. The abdundance of Mana allows various creatures to quickly evolve and adapt better to their environment. The Hantu are first to develop their intelligence and begin forming complex societies. Unlike the Hakuturi, they develop entirely on Aemil. They share traits of both plants and animals in a large humanoid shape, hardy and well suited to living in the wilderness. They spread across all lands and live harmoniously, with only occasional wars.

## First Age of Mana (1E2000-1E5703)

The Hantu harness Mana energy and master all forms of magic. They build a vast empire across Aemil and cultivate the Hakuturi in large groves, often alongside other trees to form immense forests. At this time, only green forests exist throughout Aemil, adapted to thrive at any temperature. The Hakuturi begin to speak to the Hantu and adopt their language to communicate. They form symbiotic societies where the Hakuturi are revered by the Hantu as wise mentors and the Hantu are seen by the Hakuturi as the guardians of Aemil.

### Birth of the Tritans (1E2500?)

As the Hantu dwell among the trees, young tadpoles in a deep trench of the Tritan Ocean are beginning to grow into exceptionally intelligent creatures. Being uncommonly responsive to Mana's influence, they evolve quickly. Within a few generations they form villages and develop a unique language. The first Tritans are born.

## Age of Ker Ys (1E5703-1E5800)

All waters become the domain of the Tritans. As the Hantu lead slow, largely peaceful lives on land, the Tritans live in fast-paced warrior societies. Great Tritan kingdoms are formed. The city of Ker Ys is the centre of power where all Tritan kings meet as equals. It is the largest and richest city on Aemil.

Tritans master the art (and science) of magic and use it to their advantage. They begin to wage wars on the Hantu, pushing them away from coastal areas. The Hantu however are formidable foes and hold most of their ground, stalling the war for over 600 years.

### The First Event (1E5800)

A vicious Tritan king devises a mass attack on all Hantu settlements on the western coast of Ancea. Arising from the Tritan Ocean, the largest army ever assembled descends upon the Hantu and slaughters hundreds of thousands. Millions more die from the sudden surge in Kaore generated by the mass killing. Enough Kaore is formed that it begins to spread death as it does. The Tritans begin to lose their reason, fighting each other and getting lost in the unfamiliar lands. The Hantu are affected by a terrible plague that spreads over the winds to every corner of Aemil, killing almost every living Hantu in existence.

The legions of Tritan soldiers spread across the lands of Ancea begin to settle away from the sea for the first time in their history. Their highly adaptable bodies quickly adjust to the new environment and over time they take over the abandoned Hantu villages, building over them. They however respect the Hakaturi, which they understand to be wise creatures of great magical power. They know that the Hantu could speak with the Hakaturi, but now the trees fall silent and cease to talk.

## Age of Landwalkers (1E5800-1E7000)

After the First Event, very few Hantu survive. They hide in the deepest forests and mountains, trying to escape the deadly plague carried in the air itself. They use protective spells to ward off some areas and make them safe, but they continue to clash with Tritans who, no longer seeking to destroy them, now seek them out and inadvertently bring the plague with them. Over the course of a few centuries, the last Hantu die out, leaving only traces of their history, like the tradition of carving Soul Menhirs from Zielite.

### Birth of the Humans and Ukar (1E6000)

The land-dwelling Tritans split into two groups, shaped by the main environments they find: the mountains and the forests. The mountain tribes choose to settle deep in the high rocks of the Tempus Mountains, where they are safe from attacks and can mine resources to build prosperity. The forest tribes prefer lower grounds, where they can grow more food and expand more easily. They choose to settle in the forested region of Argaes.

Over time, the mountain tribes evolve into the Ukar, while the forest tribes become the Humans. These two groups eventually find balance with the remaining unchanged Tritans who still live in the ocean. The continent of Ancea becomes the first home of the new land dwellers. Over the centuries they begin to regain their intelligence and continue to evolve guided by Mana.
