# Third Era: Auroran Era, 3475 years span

## Founding of Esperia (3E1)

The Fleet of Aurora travels through the Oranye Isles and continues eastward. It reaches the coast of Aurora as it encounters a small Tritan swamp village built on reeds. The few inhabitants are welcoming to the explorers and explain how the swamp is safer, as the dangerous beasts of Aurora stay away from it. Together the two groups build over the existing settlement and create a town on the water that dominates the surrounding landscape. They have great hopes for their new city and name it Esperia.

## Age of the City-States (3E1-3E2676)

Aemil finds itself divided into independent city-states, each choosing its own destiny. The cities remain tied by strong trading connections, all being dependant on each other's goods. This arrangement leads to a period of peace and prosperity as optimisation of trade becomes much more important than wars and other conflicts.

### Founding of Artis (3E59)

Esperia opens up a period of exploration and discovery of Aurora. The large wild continent creates new trade opportunities and a major trading hub develops north of Esperia, eventually becoming the city of Artis. The city specialises in shipping goods across the ocean. It generates great wealth which is invested back into the city, which becomes known for its striking architecture and the high living standards of its population.

## Age of Piracy (3E2677-3E2945)

As wealth accumulates and the city-states become less used to conflict, groups of outlaw seafarers take advantage of the abdunant ships carrying precious goods across the ocean. Pirate groups become more common and develop intricate alliances and common laws. They eventually disrupt the world order by becoming the most influential faction on Aemil.

### The Corsair Marque (3E2698)

Pirates thrive on a rocky island northwest of Artis full of sheltered coves. The island becomes a refuge for several pirate groups that regularly attack Artis' shipping routes and sometimes even extend south into Esperia's. A famous pirate named Reid the Red unites all the crews of the island and founds the Corsair Marque, a syndicate of all the pirate crews of what becomes known as Red Corsair Island. The Corsair Marque dominates world trade for over 200 years.

## Second Mana Storm (3E2897-3E2909)

Some written records remain of the Mana Storm 3517 years before, but it is considered myth by many. This changes when the Mana Storm reoccurs. The Second Mana Storm begins suddenly and deeply alters the minds of all living creatures. People report seeing numbers instead of colours, tasting music and talking to animals. These seem to be real effects rather than madness, as magic users tap into this altering Mana flow and find themselves much more powerful.

## Mana War (3E2905-3E2941)

In the last years of the Second Mana Storm the chaos brought about by its intense magical alterations turns violent. Different populations no longer trust each other and commerce among them has ceased. People no longer work as they spend their time involved in surreal fantasies. Poverty becomes a burden for nearly everyone. Each city and group blames another for their situation.  [...]

### The Grand Calamity (3E2941)

Currently work in progress in our [design board](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVPPCT-pY=/).

### Birth of the Raijin (3E2941)

Currently work in progress in our [design board](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVPPCT-pY=/).

## Destruction of Keshlam (3E2941-3E2945)

Currently work in progress in our [design board](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVPPCT-pY=/).

## Age of Kaore (3E2945-3E3465)

Previously a minor force on Aemil, Kaore usually only forms when Mana stagnates and cannot flow. It is also generated by death, and the events of the Mana War cause so many deaths that they permanently raise the concentration of Kaore in the world. This leads to a 530-year dark age where war, disease, and famine often afflict the people of Aemil. This period culminates in the Kaore Storm, an event that ushers in the beginning of the Fourth Era.